INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# SurgiShopERPNext - AI Assistant Instructions

## Project Overview

SurgiShopERPNext is a specialized Frappe/ERPNext app designed to allow expired products in transactions for research purposes. This app focuses on disabling batch expiry validation to enable processing of expired items in medical/surgical inventory management.

## AI Agent Development Rules

The AI agent pair-programming with this repository MUST follow these rules:

1.  **Automatic Cache Busting**: After every modification to a client-side asset (e.g., `.js`, `.css` files) that is referenced in `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py`, the agent MUST automatically increment the version query string for that asset. For example, `.../file.js?v=1.0.1` should become `.../file.js?v=1.0.2`.

2.  **Automatic Git Push**: After every file modification or creation, the agent MUST automatically stage the changes, commit them with a descriptive, conventional commit message, and push the commit to the remote repository's `development` branch.

3.  **Communication of Changes**: All file modifications and code changes must be clearly communicated to the user in natural language, including explanations of what is being changed and why, before or during the process.

## Key Features

### 🔬 Research-Focused Design
- **Batch Expiry Override**: Completely disables batch expiry validation for ALL transactions
- **Expired Item Handling**: Allows processing of expired items for research purposes
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Handles all major transaction types
- **Proper Restoration**: Restores original validation after processing

### 🏥 Medical Focus
- **Surgical Supply Management**: Specifically designed for medical/surgical inventory
- **Research Capabilities**: Batch expiry override for research purposes
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring

### 🔍 Custom Barcode Scanning
- **Custom Override**: Overrides ERPNext's default barcode scanning with custom implementation
- **Enhanced Functionality**: Custom barcode processing with detailed logging
- **API Integration**: Custom API endpoints for barcode scanning
- **Form Integration**: Seamless integration with ERPNext forms

## Project Structure

```
surgishoperpnext/
├── hooks.py                          # Main Frappe app configuration
├── surgishoperpnext/
│   ├── api/
│   │   └── barcode.py                # Custom barcode scanning API
│   ├── overrides/
│   │   └── stock_controller.py       # Batch expiry override logic
│   └── patches/                      # Database migration patches
├── public/js/
│   └── custom-barcode-scanner.js     # Custom barcode scanner override
└── templates/
    └── pages/
```

## Supported Transactions

The batch expiry override functionality is applied to these doctypes:

- **Purchase Receipt** - Goods receipt processing
- **Purchase Invoice** - Purchase invoice processing
- **Stock Entry** - Material transfers and adjustments
- **Stock Reconciliation** - Stock reconciliation
- **Sales Invoice** - Sales invoice processing
- **Delivery Note** - Delivery note processing

## Custom Barcode Scanning

### Override Implementation
- **Custom BarcodeScanner**: Overrides ERPNext's default `erpnext.utils.BarcodeScanner` class
- **Custom API**: Uses `surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.api.barcode.scan_barcode` instead of default
- **Enhanced Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring
- **Form Integration**: Seamless integration with ERPNext transaction forms

### How It Works

1. **JavaScript Override**: Custom `BarcodeScanner` class replaces ERPNext's default
2. **API Call**: Calls custom barcode scanning API with enhanced functionality
3. **Form Update**: Updates form with scanned item details
4. **Logging**: Comprehensive logging for debugging

### API Endpoints

#### `scan_barcode(search_value, ctx)`
- **Purpose**: Main barcode scanning function
- **Input**: Barcode value and context
- **Output**: Item details including code, name, UOM, rate, etc.
- **Search Order**: Item Barcode → Serial No → Batch No → Warehouse

#### `get_item_by_barcode(barcode)`
- **Purpose**: Simple barcode lookup
- **Input**: Barcode string
- **Output**: Item details

#### `validate_barcode(barcode)`
- **Purpose**: Validate if barcode exists
- **Input**: Barcode string
- **Output**: Boolean validation result

## Batch Expiry Override

### Research-Focused Design
- **Complete Override**: Disables batch expiry validation for ALL transactions
- **Research Purpose**: Allows processing of expired items for research
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Handles all major transaction types
- **Proper Restoration**: Restores original validation after processing

### How It Works

1. **Before Validation**: Disables batch expiry validation by monkey-patching `StockController.validate_serialized_batch`
2. **After Processing**: Restores original validation function
3. **On Cancel**: Restores original validation function

### Implementation Details

The override works by:
- Storing the original `validate_serialized_batch` method
- Replacing it with a no-op function during document processing
- Restoring the original method after processing is complete

## Configuration

### hooks.py Configuration
```python
# Custom barcode scanner loading for specific doctypes
doctype_js = {
    "Stock Entry": "/assets/surgishoperpnext/js/custom-barcode-scanner.js?v=1.0.1",
    "Purchase Order": "/assets/surgishoperpnext/js/custom-barcode-scanner.js?v=1.0.1",
    # ... other doctypes
}

# Document event hooks for batch expiry override
doc_events = {
    "Purchase Receipt": {
        "before_validate": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.disable_batch_expiry_validation",
        "after_insert": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.restore_batch_expiry_validation",
        "on_cancel": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.restore_batch_expiry_validation"
    },
    # ... other doctypes
}
```

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- **Python**: PEP 8 compliant
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks
- **Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging

### Performance Considerations
- **Efficient Override**: Minimal performance impact
- **Memory Management**: Proper cleanup and restoration
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling

### Security
- **Input Validation**: Proper validation of document types
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling
- **Data Integrity**: Maintains data integrity while allowing expired items

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Override Not Working
- **Check**: Console logs for override function calls
- **Verify**: Document events are properly configured in hooks.py
- **Debug**: Check frappe logs for error messages

#### 2. Validation Not Restored
- **Check**: After processing logs
- **Verify**: Original function is properly stored
- **Debug**: Check for exceptions in restore function

### Debug Commands
```python
# Check if override is active
import frappe
from erpnext.controllers.stock_controller import StockController
print(StockController.validate_serialized_batch)

# Check frappe logs
frappe.logger().info("Checking override status")
```

## Maintenance

### Regular Tasks
- **Version Updates**: Update version numbers in hooks.py
- **Testing**: Regular testing of batch expiry override functionality
- **Logging**: Monitor frappe logs for issues
- **Performance**: Monitor processing times

### Updates
- **Override Logic**: Test batch expiry override after changes
- **Document Events**: Verify document event hooks still work
- **Error Handling**: Test error scenarios

## Support

### Documentation
- **Code Comments**: Comprehensive inline documentation
- **Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging
- **API Documentation**: Well-documented override functions

### Debugging
- **Frappe Logs**: Check frappe logs for detailed information
- **Console Logs**: Monitor console for override status
- **Error Handling**: Test error scenarios

## Version Management

### Automatic Version Bumping
- **AI Assistant Responsibility**: The AI assistant will automatically increment the version number (x.y.n) where n is the patch version before every git push
- **Version Format**: Semantic versioning (x.y.z) where:
  - x = Major version (breaking changes)
  - y = Minor version (new features)
  - z = Patch version (bug fixes)
- **Files Updated**: 
  - `surgishoperpnext/__init__.py` - Main version
  - `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py` - JavaScript version numbers
  - `INSTRUCTIONS.md` - Documentation version

### Manual Version Bumping
If manual version bumping is needed:
1. Edit `surgishoperpnext/__init__.py` and update `__version__`
2. Update version numbers in `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py` (v=1.0.x)
3. Update version in `INSTRUCTIONS.md`
4. Commit and push changes

## Version Information

- **Current Version**: 0.4.0
- **Python Requirements**: >=3.10
- **Frappe Compatibility**: ~15.0.0
- **License**: MIT

## Contact

- **Developer**: SurgiShop
- **Email**: Arthur.Borges@SurgiShop.com
- **Repository**: GitHub - surgishoperpnext

---

**Note**: This app is specifically designed for research purposes to allow processing of expired items. The batch expiry override is intentional for research purposes and should be used responsibly.

## Changelog

### Version 0.4.0 (GS1 Parsing Improvement)
- Integrated gs1-barcode-parser-js library for robust GS1 barcode parsing, replacing custom logic.

### Version 0.3.0 (Barcode Scanning Enhancements)
- Implemented custom GS1 barcode parsing for raw formats without parentheses.
- Added robust override for the scan_barcode field in transaction forms (e.g., Purchase Receipt) using frappe.ui.form.on and router events.
- Fixed uncaught promise rejections with .catch() handling and user-friendly alerts.
- Cleaned up duplicate console logs by adding a flag to prevent multiple handler attachments.
- Resolved variable scoping issues in GS1 parser.
- Enhanced logging for parsed GTIN, lot, and expiry details.
- Overall improvements to barcode scanning reliability for research-focused inventory management, including batch creation via API.

Commit message:

fix(barcode): ensure GS1 library loads correctly and handle undefined cases

INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# SurgiShopERPNext - AI Assistant Instructions

## Project Overview

SurgiShopERPNext is a specialized Frappe/ERPNext app designed to allow expired products in transactions for research purposes. This app focuses on disabling batch expiry validation to enable processing of expired items in medical/surgical inventory management.

## AI Agent Development Rules

The AI agent pair-programming with this repository MUST follow these rules:

1.  **Automatic Cache Busting**: After every modification to a client-side asset (e.g., `.js`, `.css` files) that is referenced in `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py`, the agent MUST automatically increment the version query string for that asset. For example, `.../file.js?v=1.0.1` should become `.../file.js?v=1.0.2`.

2.  **Automatic Git Push**: After every file modification or creation, the agent MUST automatically stage the changes, commit them with a descriptive, conventional commit message, and push the commit to the remote repository's `development` branch.

3.  **Communication of Changes**: All file modifications and code changes must be clearly communicated to the user in natural language, including explanations of what is being changed and why, before or during the process.

## Key Features

### 🔬 Research-Focused Design
- **Batch Expiry Override**: Completely disables batch expiry validation for ALL transactions
- **Expired Item Handling**: Allows processing of expired items for research purposes
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Handles all major transaction types
- **Proper Restoration**: Restores original validation after processing

### 🏥 Medical Focus
- **Surgical Supply Management**: Specifically designed for medical/surgical inventory
- **Research Capabilities**: Batch expiry override for research purposes
- **Comprehensive Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring

### 🔍 Custom Barcode Scanning
- **Custom Override**: Overrides ERPNext's default barcode scanning with custom implementation
- **Enhanced Functionality**: Custom barcode processing with detailed logging
- **API Integration**: Custom API endpoints for barcode scanning
- **Form Integration**: Seamless integration with ERPNext forms

## Project Structure

```
surgishoperpnext/
├── hooks.py                          # Main Frappe app configuration
├── surgishoperpnext/
│   ├── api/
│   │   └── barcode.py                # Custom barcode scanning API
│   ├── overrides/
│   │   └── stock_controller.py       # Batch expiry override logic
│   └── patches/                      # Database migration patches
├── public/js/
│   └── custom-barcode-scanner.js     # Custom barcode scanner override
└── templates/
    └── pages/
```

## Supported Transactions

The batch expiry override functionality is applied to these doctypes:

- **Purchase Receipt** - Goods receipt processing
- **Purchase Invoice** - Purchase invoice processing
- **Stock Entry** - Material transfers and adjustments
- **Stock Reconciliation** - Stock reconciliation
- **Sales Invoice** - Sales invoice processing
- **Delivery Note** - Delivery note processing

## Custom Barcode Scanning

### Override Implementation
- **Custom BarcodeScanner**: Overrides ERPNext's default `erpnext.utils.BarcodeScanner` class
- **Custom API**: Uses `surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.api.barcode.scan_barcode` instead of default
- **Enhanced Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging and monitoring
- **Form Integration**: Seamless integration with ERPNext transaction forms

### How It Works

1. **JavaScript Override**: Custom `BarcodeScanner` class replaces ERPNext's default
2. **API Call**: Calls custom barcode scanning API with enhanced functionality
3. **Form Update**: Updates form with scanned item details
4. **Logging**: Comprehensive logging for debugging

### API Endpoints

#### `scan_barcode(search_value, ctx)`
- **Purpose**: Main barcode scanning function
- **Input**: Barcode value and context
- **Output**: Item details including code, name, UOM, rate, etc.
- **Search Order**: Item Barcode → Serial No → Batch No → Warehouse

#### `get_item_by_barcode(barcode)`
- **Purpose**: Simple barcode lookup
- **Input**: Barcode string
- **Output**: Item details

#### `validate_barcode(barcode)`
- **Purpose**: Validate if barcode exists
- **Input**: Barcode string
- **Output**: Boolean validation result

## Batch Expiry Override

### Research-Focused Design
- **Complete Override**: Disables batch expiry validation for ALL transactions
- **Research Purpose**: Allows processing of expired items for research
- **Comprehensive Coverage**: Handles all major transaction types
- **Proper Restoration**: Restores original validation after processing

### How It Works

1. **Before Validation**: Disables batch expiry validation by monkey-patching `StockController.validate_serialized_batch`
2. **After Processing**: Restores original validation function
3. **On Cancel**: Restores original validation function

### Implementation Details

The override works by:
- Storing the original `validate_serialized_batch` method
- Replacing it with a no-op function during document processing
- Restoring the original method after processing is complete

## Configuration

### hooks.py Configuration
```python
# Custom barcode scanner loading for specific doctypes
doctype_js = {
    "Stock Entry": "/assets/surgishoperpnext/js/custom-barcode-scanner.js?v=1.0.1",
    "Purchase Order": "/assets/surgishoperpnext/js/custom-barcode-scanner.js?v=1.0.1",
    # ... other doctypes
}

# Document event hooks for batch expiry override
doc_events = {
    "Purchase Receipt": {
        "before_validate": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.disable_batch_expiry_validation",
        "after_insert": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.restore_batch_expiry_validation",
        "on_cancel": "surgishoperpnext.surgishoperpnext.overrides.stock_controller.restore_batch_expiry_validation"
    },
    # ... other doctypes
}
```

## Development Guidelines

### Code Style
- **Python**: PEP 8 compliant
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive try-catch blocks
- **Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging

### Performance Considerations
- **Efficient Override**: Minimal performance impact
- **Memory Management**: Proper cleanup and restoration
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling

### Security
- **Input Validation**: Proper validation of document types
- **Error Handling**: Graceful error handling
- **Data Integrity**: Maintains data integrity while allowing expired items

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Override Not Working
- **Check**: Console logs for override function calls
- **Verify**: Document events are properly configured in hooks.py
- **Debug**: Check frappe logs for error messages

#### 2. Validation Not Restored
- **Check**: After processing logs
- **Verify**: Original function is properly stored
- **Debug**: Check for exceptions in restore function

### Debug Commands
```python
# Check if override is active
import frappe
from erpnext.controllers.stock_controller import StockController
print(StockController.validate_serialized_batch)

# Check frappe logs
frappe.logger().info("Checking override status")
```

## Maintenance

### Regular Tasks
- **Version Updates**: Update version numbers in hooks.py
- **Testing**: Regular testing of batch expiry override functionality
- **Logging**: Monitor frappe logs for issues
- **Performance**: Monitor processing times

### Updates
- **Override Logic**: Test batch expiry override after changes
- **Document Events**: Verify document event hooks still work
- **Error Handling**: Test error scenarios

## Support

### Documentation
- **Code Comments**: Comprehensive inline documentation
- **Logging**: Detailed logging for debugging
- **API Documentation**: Well-documented override functions

### Debugging
- **Frappe Logs**: Check frappe logs for detailed information
- **Console Logs**: Monitor console for override status
- **Error Handling**: Test error scenarios

## Version Management

### Automatic Version Bumping
- **AI Assistant Responsibility**: The AI assistant will automatically increment the version number (x.y.n) where n is the patch version before every git push
- **Version Format**: Semantic versioning (x.y.z) where:
  - x = Major version (breaking changes)
  - y = Minor version (new features)
  - z = Patch version (bug fixes)
- **Files Updated**: 
  - `surgishoperpnext/__init__.py` - Main version
  - `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py` - JavaScript version numbers
  - `INSTRUCTIONS.md` - Documentation version

### Manual Version Bumping
If manual version bumping is needed:
1. Edit `surgishoperpnext/__init__.py` and update `__version__`
2. Update version numbers in `surgishoperpnext/hooks.py` (v=1.0.x)
3. Update version in `INSTRUCTIONS.md`
4. Commit and push changes

## Version Information

- **Current Version**: 0.4.1
- **Python Requirements**: >=3.10
- **Frappe Compatibility**: ~15.0.0
- **License**: MIT

## Contact

- **Developer**: SurgiShop
- **Email**: Arthur.Borges@SurgiShop.com
- **Repository**: GitHub - surgishoperpnext

---

**Note**: This app is specifically designed for research purposes to allow processing of expired items. The batch expiry override is intentional for research purposes and should be used responsibly.

## Changelog

### Version 0.4.1 (GS1 Library Fix)
- Fixed loading of gs1-barcode-parser-js to prevent 'not defined' errors.

### Version 0.4.0 (GS1 Parsing Improvement)
- Integrated gs1-barcode-parser-js library for robust GS1 barcode parsing, replacing custom logic.

### Version 0.3.0 (Barcode Scanning Enhancements)
- Implemented custom GS1 barcode parsing for raw formats without parentheses.
- Added robust override for the scan_barcode field in transaction forms (e.g., Purchase Receipt) using frappe.ui.form.on and router events.
- Fixed uncaught promise rejections with .catch() handling and user-friendly alerts.
- Cleaned up duplicate console logs by adding a flag to prevent multiple handler attachments.
- Resolved variable scoping issues in GS1 parser.
- Enhanced logging for parsed GTIN, lot, and expiry details.
- Overall improvements to barcode scanning reliability for research-focused inventory management, including batch creation via API.
